---
layout: post
title: The 2 types of sharing economy
---
The "sharing economy" is coming under heavy fire. Advocates of Uber for X or AirBnB for Y claim that these services democratise and bring market forces and efficiencies to outdated industries, whilst detractors talk about how the same products are destroying job security and replacing it with a fake market for trying to make a quick, unregulated buck. A useful holistic to distinguish between the two sides is whether or not an author puts quotation marks around the words “sharing economy”. I am instinctively inclined to pitch my tent in the second camp, and to only relax my wariness with caution and suspicion when a platform proves empirically genuine and positive enough to be trusted with some degree of power over the social, as well as business dynamics of an entire industry. However, whilst we may be unhappy with some properties of the economy and culture that these companies seem to lead towards, it is hard to claim that they are responsible for the general environment that spawned them. The economy is bad and there aren’t many good jobs, but this wasn’t initially caused by taxi apps. They may thrive on and potentially exacerbate this state of affairs (although whether they do or not, and whether this really is a bad thing is certainly up for debate), but it seems untenable to try and lay everything at their door.

I would like to make a distinction between 2 types of “sharing economy” company. Commentaries typically focus on one type or the other, but few acknowledge the qualitative difference in paradigms.

1. Rich people renting out their stuff for extra disposable income - AirBnB etc.

2. Generally less rich people renting out their time for their livelihood - Uber etc.

Complaints against the AirBnBs generally centre around their pushing up against and over the boundaries of the law. To some extent, this kind of active pressure is required if we want to bring about rapid modernisation of regulation that may legitimately be outdated and unhelpful to an internet society. But not all regulation is useless red tape - it often provides essential consumer protections, both in a monetary and physical sense, and any alterations to such explicit safeguards must be done with care and consideration.

Complaints against the Ubers include those levelled against the AirBnBs, but with far more emphasis on how and whether the system works for the people renting out their time. It becomes much more relevant and urgent to ensure that Uber are being fair with their pricing and terms and so on once drivers to some extent throw their livelihoods in with them. If Uber screw around with the supply-side economics of their “market” (I think that in this case the quotation marks are entirely justified), people who would be safe in a normal, contractual employment relationship quickly start to get hurt.

The supply side on the AirBnBs have a great Best Alternative To a Negotiated Agreement (BATNA) - they can just decide that they can’t be bothered to deal with X hypothetical bullshit and make do with their salary from their job. The BATNA for the supply side on the Ubers is much bleaker - if a driver starts to feel squeezed by their chosen platform, then there is little they can do to express their displeasure whilst still getting paid. To my mind, this is the fundamental difference between the types of “sharing economy” company, and it feels dangerous.
