---
layout: post
title: About those 10,000 hours
---
Yesterday I found <a href="http://writerkata.com/" target="_blank">WriterKata</a>, an elegant side-project by someone who I would love to credit but can’t find a name or website for. The app presents you with repeated series of different writing challenges starting at “write a sentence describing…”, progressing through to “write a story where…”. The point is to bring the focussed, obsessive repetition that the top golfers, pianists and Starcraft players display when practicing their disciplines. I’ve read Geoff Colvin and Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi and Malcolm Gladwell (as well as the reasons why Malcolm Gladwell is a fraud and a charlatan) and I know that this is the way that you get awesome at something. I would quite like to be awesome at writing. And yet I don’t think there’s any chance I’ll be using WriterKata anytime soon.

The pot of golden gratification lies at the end of the rainbow of hard work, and there’s only so far a Protestant work ethic can get you. The gold has to be so exciting and motivating to you that you are willing to ignore the fact that the rainbow is actually ridiculously long and mostly incredibly boring. At the moment, I don’t trust that if I did some kata-like things today then I would keep doing them for the next 10 years, rendering any focussed boredom I endure today mostly pointless. And whilst, all things being equal, I would prefer to be a world-class writer/producer/breakdancer than not, I don’t find the vanishingly unlikely prospect sufficiently compelling. I think I would need a substantial success, acclaimed and adored by fans the world over, before I would think “this seems like a worthwhile risk to invest a large chunk of my waking hours into”.

However, whilst by the laws of chance and televised talent shows it’s not strictly necessary to be highly skilled and practiced before producing a majestic opus, it certainly helps. But if you need to produce a majestic opus before deciding that you will become highly skilled and practiced, then you have something of a Catch 22. Or so I’m lead to believe, I’ve never read the book. Regardless, like so many things that people label as Catch 22s, this one ends with someone deciding that they’ve left it quite long enough and that it’s finally time to play through Half Life 2.
