---
layout: post
title: 300 nights a year for the last 25 years
---
Stewart Lee is my favourite British comedian. As far as my limited domain knowledge goes, he is essentially unique. Perhaps if I dug deeper into the London underground scene I would find a teeming mass of equally repetitive, self-referential and suicidally aggressive stand-ups, but I’m not going to, so I won’t. His BBC show “Stewart Lee’s Comedy Vehicle” recently finished its third season, and whilst watching it I found myself thinking “I wonder if I could do that?” Lee immediately answered the question during a rant at his audience for laughing at the wrong joke. “I thought that that was the best gag of the series, but what do I know, I’ve only been doing this for 300 nights a year for the last 25 years.”

There are certain types of endeavour where it’s bizarrely easy to hold the belief that if you tried it, you would most likely nail it first time. Maybe second time if you had an off day, but that’s really a worst case scenario. I feel that this is most common in disciplines where it feels theoretically possible to output the same content as a professional through a fit of divine inspiration rather than years of persistent effort. To me this means things like writing, comedy and lo-fi songs with a deliberately poorly recorded guitar or two and a harmonica. You outwardly acknowledge “well these people who are successful have been doing it for a long time” to project the requisite quantity of humility self-awareness. But inwardly, you’re still pretty sure that it would take you 2 attempts at most if you really put your mind to it for a few months. Then someone like Stewart Lee comes along and rubs your face in the fact that the reason he’s so good is because he’s spent most of his waking life on his craft. Fortunately it’s quite easy to forget about these rude awakenings, so you can quickly go back to being a genius author-in-waiting within a few days.

I’m often guilty of writing “you” where I really mean “I”, but this phenomenon is anecdotally very common amongst many people I’ve known and met, and I have a hunch that it probably does apply to you too. No one expects to challenge at the highest levels of tennis, nuclear physics or oil painting after a couple of practice swings, but find something with a low barrier to entry and it becomes trivial to forget that there is still a prohibitively high barrier to mastery.
