---
layout: post
title: In which nothing is ever finished
---
I’m moving house. This traditionally requires you to put all your stuff in boxes, load boxes in a friend’s van, and then unload boxes (ideally those with your stuff in) into your new <del>hovel</del> home. I am nearing the end of this process, which has reminded me yet again how impossible it is to finish anything. No exceptions.

When packing, you start with a big clear out. You give away your black and grey Gameboy and your rage-quit copies of Super Mario World, and you finally give up on resuscitating your bricked laptop from 2005 and throw it to wolves. You end up with piles of stuff to chuck, stuff to give away, stuff to definitely keep and stuff you’re not sure about. From the state of your room it’s hard to believe that this constitutes progress towards neatly boxing up and transporting your entire life, but you know better and are unconcerned. Your mother taught you from a young age that haters are going to hate.

But then you have to actually give away the pile of stuff to give away. And you have to become sure about the stuff you’re not sure about. And you have to take everything back out of your desk drawers as your friend comes to pick them up. And you have to somehow convert that pile of books into a portable format. And oh god there’s no way you’ll have room for that chair in your new place. You start shunting mounds of objects around the room with what feels like a very clear and defined purpose, and yet somehow you never seem to make anything that could even generously be called progress towards completion.

Starting anything can be hard, the middle of everything is always easy (yes, everything and always), and finishing anything is not far off impossible. Finishing and publishing a side project is hard (apparently, I’ve only managed to do so <a href=“http://www.qcumberclothing.com” target=“_blank”>once</a>). Finishing a music track is hard. Finishing a blog post is hard. I’m sure that everything in every other discipline is hard too. Finishing a corporate tax return is probably hard. Finishing building a house is probably hard. And finishing something to do with anthropological linguistics is probably not entirely straightforward either.

When you are coasting along the middle of any project of any kind, you can pick and choose what parts seem the most interesting. You can tackle the bits that yield the most satisfaction for the least investment. This is fantastic. Unfortunately, it also means that by the end you are left with a heap of boring and tedious chores that you had somehow hoped you would never have to worry about. There are many routes and roads around the middle of a project, but only a few destinations that make any sense. It is almost always incredibly fiddly to back into these driveways, and after scraping your paintwork a few times and putting a hefty dent in the side of the car next to you it is very easy to decide to abandon your car and flee to Mexico.

There’s no real solution to this phenomenon, other than being aware of it and bracing yourself for impact. It’s always going to take some brute honesty and even more brutal force to make it to the hallowed land of actually having finished something.
