---
layout: post
title: Where pride lives
---
Between 2006 and 2009 I played quite a lot of online poker. For most of this time I was terrible, but by the end I was comfortably beating $100 buy-in games and could lie to myself and others about my performance in $200 buy-ins. I have also always played low-stakes but massive-pride games with roughly equally competent friends. For many years, I had implied and explicit arguments with one of these <del>mortal enemies</del> friends about who was the better player. We’ll call him Gandalf, although that is not his name. A fantastic way to win at poker is to convince your opponents that you don’t now what you are doing and then use this guise of idiocy to covertly empty their pockets. But it was so important to me that everyone knew how brilliant I was that I was willing to give up tens and maybe hundreds of pounds of potential winnings in exchange for their high opinions of me. Not that these opinions were even that high anyway.

Yesterday Gandalf observed that it’s been a long time since we had such an argument. This is probably partly because Gandalf appears to now be a legitimately strong player, and my game has atrophied so much that I can barely remember how many chips you get for passing GO. But this wouldn’t usually stop me from continuing to claim superiority. Much more importantly, a big chunk of my pride and self-worth used to be tied up in my ability to use a deck of cards to appropriate small pieces of plastic from other people trying to do the same to me. But I’m not a self-styled “(semi-)professional poker player”, which was a generous interpretation of the truth at the best of times, anymore. My internal and external credibilities are unaffected if I fold when I should raise or bid 4 No Trumps when I should be going for UNO, and so it’s easy to draw attention to and laugh at my bumbling mistakes. This gives me valuable points in outwardly-projected humility, which is paradoxically where a lot of my pride lives at the moment. This is probably a step up, although it's not totally clear.
