---
layout: post
title: Consistency
---
I sat down on Sunday afternoon to write 2 blog posts in a hot, sweaty orgy of draftsmanship. Sometimes this actually happens. But on this occasion I wrote about 60% of the first one and then ran dry on inspiration and inclination. Given my grandiose plans, this was somewhat disappointing, but in a vacuum it wasn’t a bad bit of progress. It was only saddening because I had pinned all my compositional hopes for the week on this one session, and, like an ham-fisted postman, hadn’t managed to deliver all of the goods.

I know I’m much more than fashionably late to the party, but this got me thinking about the little-but-bloody-mindedly-consistent approach that so many people rave about. You pick a thing, and then do a little bit of that thing <i>every</i> single day. And this incessant regularity seems to cause <a href="http://blog.jenniferdewalt.com/" target="_blank">magical things to happen</a>. Big chunks of time are important, and probably essential for some types of endeavours. But the constant, unwavering progress of doing something every single day feels very compelling in contrast to the wild variance of gambling everything on how you happen to be feeling for one 6-hour stretch every now and then. I suspect that it makes it easier to feel satisfied and like you should stop for the day, and that it constantly ensures that you are at least going somewhere.

So, like a professor of minimal techno, I’m going to find out exactly what all the cool kids are raving about. As a quantifiable, visible goal, I’m going to write 1 post per day on <a href="http://more.robertheaton.com">more.robertheaton.com</a> for as long as possible. Goal 1 is a week. I’m hoping to very quickly end up with a stack of moderately coherent things that I think, on subjects that I might otherwise have not decided to write about. I’m aware that I might crap out after 2 days and delete this post to cover up my shame. It’s far too early to tell which way things will go.
