---
layout: post
post: More Robert Heaton
---
I've been blogging, or "writing essays" if I am feeling somewhat pompous, <a href="http://robertheaton.com" target="_blank">for just over a year</a>. During this time I've written 22 posts, some of which have been read by tens of thousands of people, some of which rank very highly in Google for some highly trafficked search terms, and some of which have been read by few people who don't share a last name with me. I'm proud of pretty much all my essays, and plan to keep on writing more of them until I either die or am handed a inexplicably popular petition begging me to stop.

However, an essay takes a long time to write. The stodgy ones that have to be forcibly extracted from the muddled depths of your brain and always end up a mangled version of the perceived profundities hiding in your neo-cortex can take days and days of low-quality ready-meals and missed funerals before being archived in Evernote and forgotten forever. Even the ones that flow onto the page like rhymes from a particularly fly MC take at least an afternoon to write and edit. It seems rash to send out a raw, under-dressed prototype alongside your potentially rather polished previous works, and so there is no real space for writing about half-formed, left-field ideas.

This feels entirely contrary to the launch fast, polish later ethos of the modern startup, and denies you any of the mind-straightening benefits of writing a blog post for anything that you don't understand completely already. On the other hand, I love having an A-list of my most carefully considered pieces of writing, and would be loathe to start adding potentially insane wildcards into my carefully vetted and refined dinner party.

Which is why, as of today, <a href="/">more.robertheaton.com</a> is a thing. I'm going to write fast and break things, and will be publishing much more frequent, somewhat shorter proto-posts. You'll find book reviews, racism, .vimrc extensions and all the other back-stage gossip (nb there will not be any racism). Hopefully much of it will be readable, some of it will be interesting, and a few posts will be rough diamonds that get total makeover into fully-blown essays. It's going to be a wild ride, and I hope you'll join me for it (disclaimer: ride may not be wild).
