---
layout: post
title: What did you learn today?
---
I would like to divide the entire set of Things That Make You A Good Programmer into two subsets - Facts and Instincts. Facts are lower-level things like “what are the tradeoffs of having nested sub-documents in Mongo?”, whilst Instincts are higher-level senses like “how can I tie up the loose ends of this feature without over-engineering us all to death?” This is far from an exact science, and indeed many nay-sayers would claim that it is not a science at all, despite the fact that I used words like “set” and “subset”. But let them say-nay, say I.

Facts are getting a bad rap at the moment. They are much easier and quicker to test than Instincts, and so get a disproportionate and often frustrating amount of attention in most interview processes. A healthy disdain for Facts allows us to tell ourselves that the kernel-hacking beast we met yesterday is probably useless in the heat of battle, and almost definitely lacks the Instincts of a truly experienced and centred programmer such as ourselves. And sometimes we might be right. But Facts are still important, and all else being equal, the more Facts you know the better.

I’ve been using <a href="http://ankisrs.net" target="_blank">Anki</a> for the past few months, both to learn more Facts quicker and to see whether I am actually encountering any new Facts to learn. Anki is a very simple flashcard app. When you learn something new, you write a Q&A card describing it, and then review your cards daily/periodically. This process is perfect for learning Vim shortcuts, esoteric Ruby array functions, and any other new piece of knowledge that you might not use extensively the first time you encounter it. It makes finding out new things exciting because you get to expand your card collection, and makes broadly researching new domains ultra-exciting for the same reason. It works incredibly well, for exactly the reasons you would assume.

But an unexpected side-effect has been the visibility that the process gives you into the quantity, type and rate of new Facts that you learn. It can be surprisingly easy to go an entire day of coding without having to create a new card. It’s even easier to dismiss this by saying that this is fine because you developed a bunch of intangible Instincts, which may be true, but also may not be. Spending a day using skills you already have is hardly a reason to declare martial law, but spending weeks and months doing so should be a cause for concern. You don’t need to know everything about everything in order to be a good programmer, but knowing more things about more things certainly isn’t going to hurt.
